Pietro Boselli is a 27 year old who has
a PhD in mechanical engineering while he
was teaching a course a student
discovered that he's also a model this
got picked up in the Western media and
he's quickly dubbed the world's hottest
math teacher Alex bellos at the Guardian
recently interviewed Pietro two of the
questions I found interesting where he
asked whether Pietro knew any
mathematical party tricks and whether he
could calculate forty three by sixty
seven in his head it turned out he
didn't know any tricks and that's a
shame so in this video I'm going to
teach you how you can do 43 by 67 in
your head using some of the methods I've
already taught the first method is the
video I made about how you can multiply
two numbers that are close to each other
the procedure is to look at the average
of the two numbers and square it and
subtract the difference from the average
and square that 43 and 67 have an
average of 55 and both numbers have a
difference of 12 from 55 so we can
compute the product as 55 squared minus
12 squared now we know 12 squared is 144
but what's 55 squared in another method
I've taught you can square numbers in
the 50s very easily the method is to add
the difference from 50 to 25 that
becomes the leading digits of your
answer and then the last two digits are
the square of the difference from 50 55
is the difference of 5 from 50 so 25
plus 5 is 30 and 5 squared is 25
therefore 55 squared is 30 25 there is
another method you could use you can
also square a number ending in 5 what
you do is you look at the tens digit and
you multiply it by 1 more than
itself you then append 25 at the end of
the number here the tens digit is 5 so 5
times 6 is 30
we then append 25 to get 55 squared is
30 25 putting it all together we have 43
times 67 is 55 squared minus 12 squared
which is then 30 25 minus 144 which we
can then come to 28 81 so while each of
these tricks I've taught you may have
seemed like you're solving a very
specific problem the joy of these mental
math tricks is that you can put them
together and solve otherwise problems
that you would never be able to solve in
your head very easily if you liked some
of these methods you should definitely
check out my book the best mental math
tricks it will help you look like a
genius at party I cover all sorts of
methods including squaring numbers
multiplying numbers dividing numbers and
each method is accompanied by a complete
mathematical proof so you can even learn
the methods to prove why these math
tricks work thanks for watching please
subscribe to my video I make videos on
math and game theory you can catch me on
my blog mind your decisions which you
can follow on Facebook Google+ and
patreon you can also catch me on social
media at presto Walker and you can check
out all my books there's a link in the
video description thanks for watching